# ion: a hidden universe

## cfp

### title: ion, a hidden universe

### description

Come discover ion, a world of code, existing, in parallel with the one you know. Relive the journey that led to its discovery and explore the possibilities it offers. From literate, to natural programming, DSLs, and more. In JS, Python, and beyond.

### abstract

I'll start by introducing attendees to the problem that led to the discovery, finding a backwards compatible solution to including json within browsers without `xhr, eval` or `fetch`.

Next we'll quickly look at alternative solutions like **jsonp**, then show how we arrived at **ion**: invoked object notation, a solution and gateway to a new universe of code.

Finally, we'll walk through 3-4 short examples of what **ion** makes possible, show that the concept can be applied to other languages, and encourage attendees to think about, pursue and share seemingly impossible ideas like that which led us here.


## talk

### intro: 15s = 1 slide

What if I told you there's a world, a universe, hidden right before our eyes, in the code we read & write every day? What if I told you it's been there all along?

Would you believe me? 🧐

Would you follow me there? 🤔


### invitation

```javascript
how == json --> browser - (xhr & eval & fetch)
```

### introspection

What is json?

```javascript
{ "json" :   "data"  }  // is an
{ object : 'literal' }  /* is an */   Object

                        // and

[        "json"     ]   // is an
[  'array literal'  ]   /* is an */   Array
```

For simplicity, and fun, let's refer to these two json-as-js forms as

```javascript
['~ . ~']   // json array &
{ 0 : 0 }   // json object
```


####.

Since both forms can be js can we load them as `<script/>` and bypass `eval()`? 🤔

Kind of

```javascript
['~ . ~'] //✔️ valid but anonymous & inaccessible
{ 0 : 0 } //✖️ invalid
```

Ok 😞 we lose a lot without `eval`, primarily 
access to json as identifiable code, but our invitation requests ~~`eval`~~, so can we emulate it and keep access?

Yes, with jsonp

```javascript
on (['~ . ~']) 

on ({ 0 : 0 }) 
```

_Great! . . . but `on` makes this look a whole lot more like code than json so can we improve?_

Yes, get rid of it, but how?

Let's start with what's `on ({ 0 : 0})`, an expression that evaluates and operates on an object.

_Can we think of other more symbolic expressions that do the same?_

Yes, at least one

```javascript
! (['~ . ~']) 
! ({ 0 : 0 }) 
```

Good. Valid JS that looks more data-like than code but . . . looks like we're back to being inaccessible.

So how can we access?

Start with what's already happening.

json's being converted to a boolean. Interesting.

Objects have `.toString()`, what about `.toBoolean()`?

No, but . . . could we use `.toString()`?



####.


How?

Every object has a `.toString()` method. By default, they all share a single accessible method:

`Object.prototype.toString()`

```javascript
console.log ({"json":"data"})
         >> ({"json":"data"})  .toString()
         >>  Object . prototype.toString()

 'access' +  {"json":"data"}
         >> ({"json":"data"})  .toString()
         >>  Object . prototype.toString()
```

Also true for json arrays

####.


```javascript
`toString () --> 'hello' + {json:'data'}`
 `valueOf () -->         + {json:'data'}`
```

Any other single operand operators?

```javascript
;    + (json)
;    - (json)
;    ~ (json)
```


### welcome

```javascript
/d('~ . ~')b/   +   ['~ . ~']   &  ({ 0 : 0 })
```

### adventure

jeni, jewels & anemoji; DSLs, Paradigms, and more.

### recap

### thanks

To my wife & son, family, /dev/color, celia, agnes, andré, eli, moses, jeb & everyone who's helped me share this with you today.